# Use of  Twitter Sentiments to analyze the COVID-19 situation in Zambia

## Introduction
The world is currently reeling from a novel corona-virus pandemic known as COVID-19. First detected in Wuhan, Hubei province in China in December 2019, the virus has spread across the world forcing the World Health Organisation (WHO) to declare it a global pandemic. As at 14th April, 2020, a total 4,442,919 COVID-19 cases had been confirmed globally with 298,327 people reported dead (15%). 

The virus has spared no country in the world as it knows no boundaries. Zambia currently has 446 total cases with a total of 7 deaths. The Zambian Government initially put up several measures to help mitigate the spread of the virus such as restricting public gatherings and the closure of public places such as football stadiums. Despite all these measure being put in place, the number of cases continue to increase significantly. 

Zambia has a population of 18.2 million people with over 50 % active internet users. Majority of whom spend their time on various social media platforms such as Facebook, twitter and Instagram. Leveraging data that is generated by these users online such as tweets, posts, comments, likes and retweets, the government can make use of these insights to inform interventions to deal with various socio-economic challenges the country faces. They can further use these insights to get peoples reactions to the measure being put up to stop the spread of the virus.
 
 ### This article will aims to:
  1) Determine the correlation between the number of tweets and COVID-19 cases recorded daily; 
  2) Extract keywords that appeared in most tweets;
  3) To get users reaction to how the government is resonding to the COVID-19 situation thus far
 
## Methodology
A total of 5232 tweets were mined from twitter between the 15th of March 2020 to the 13th of March 2020 using the keywords <em> covid </em> and <em> zambia </em>".

### - Packages Use
    - Python Programming Language was the primary programming language for this work.
    - GetOldTweets3 was used to mine old tweets. Please Note: We used this package because it does not have any restrictions on the number of tweets we can mine. 
    - NLP Library was used for sentiment analysis.
    - PySpark and Pandas were used for data wrangling and analysis.
    - Matplotlib and Seaborn  were used for visualisation.
    - Data was stored in csv files.
    
## Key Findings


## Key Words
Sentiment Analysis, PySpark, Python, NLP, DataSet, Data, Data Visualisation, Data Analysis